Starting some use-case/overview documentation (#25)
kroxylicious/kroxylicious.github.io: _use_cases/encryption-at-rest.markdown

---

## Why

Apache Kafka&#174; does not directly support any form of encryption for data stored within a broker. This means that the contents
of records sent to Apache Kafka are stored in the clear. Anyone with sufficient privileges, such as a Kafka Administrator
with file system access, is able to read the contents of the records.

This present a challenge for an enterprise using Kafka to distribute confidential data or PII (Personally Identifiable
Information).  Enterprises are often subject to confidential requirements coming from governmental bodies such as
GDPR in the EU or LGPD in Brazil, industry standards such as HIPAA in the health domain or PCI/DSS in the payments domain,
in addition to any in-house security and compliance requirements.

The problem is made more complex if the enterprise has opted to utilise a Cloud Kafka Service as the confidential
data is now residing in the clear on the file systems of the service provider.

| ![image](../assets/encryption-at-rest_problem.png){:width="100%"} |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------:|
|    *Problem: Plain text records readable by the Kafka Admins*     |

### Isn't TLS sufficient?

> TLS encrypts the content as it traverses the wire.  It means that someone using a network sniffer cannot tap what is being

Reviewer: > TLS encrypts the content as it traverses the wire.

Sounds odd to me I think it should be one of 

```suggestion
TLS encrypts the content as it traverses the network.  It means that someone using a network sniffer cannot tap what is being
```
or
```suggestion
TLS encrypts the content as it travels along the wire.  It means that someone using a network sniffer cannot tap what is being
```

Author: I simplified the sentence.

Organisations could write their own encryption code but this is a burden to the application teams. The need for
_interoperability_ between different language encryption implementations - this increases the overheads.  There is also
the problem of key distribution to consider.  Some part of the system needs to push the correct encryption keys out to
the applications and manage tasks such as key rotation.  Finally, cryptography is a specialist area and the consequences
of a design flaw or bug are significant (confidentiality breach).

Having the applications encrypt/decrypt data themselves, whilst technically feasible, is not really a tenable solution
at the scale required for most enterprises.

# Kroxylicious Topic Encryption

The Kroxylicious Topic Encryption feature offers a solution to the problem.  It does this by offering a solution
that encrypts the Kafka records without requiring changes to either applications or the Kafka Cluster.

It does this by leveraging a Kroxylicious Filter.  The filter intercepts produce requests from producing applications
and encrypts the content, before the produce request is forwarded to the brokers.  For consuming, the filter intercepts

> fetch responses and decrypted the contents before the fetch response is forwarded to the applications.  

Reviewer: I think we want to start by introducing encryption by a proxy service before launching into a description of filters.

---
name: Encryption At Rest
---

## Why

Apache Kafka&#174; does not directly support any form of encryption for data stored within a broker. This means that the contents

> of records sent to Apache Kafka are stored in the clear. Anyone with sufficient privileges, such as a Kafka Administrator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of records sent to Apache Kafka are stored in the clear on the broker's disks. Anyone with sufficient privileges, such as a Kafka Administrator
```

> of records sent to Apache Kafka are stored in the clear. Anyone with sufficient privileges, such as a Kafka Administrator

Author: Accepted.

with file system access, is able to read the contents of the records.

> This present a challenge for an enterprise using Kafka to distribute confidential data or PII (Personally Identifiable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This presents a challenge for an enterprise using Kafka to distribute confidential data or PII (Personally Identifiable
```

Also it's not "confidential data or PII": PII is a subset of confidential data, so "confidential data, such as PII"... would be better imho.

> Information).  Enterprises are often subject to confidential requirements coming from governmental bodies such as

Reviewer 2: The requirements themselves are not a secret.

```suggestion
Information).  Enterprises are often subject to confidentiality requirements coming from governmental bodies such as
```

GDPR in the EU or LGPD in Brazil, industry standards such as HIPAA in the health domain or PCI/DSS in the payments domain,

> in addition to any in-house security and compliance requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in addition to any in-house compliance requirements.
```

The problem is made more complex if the enterprise has opted to utilise a Cloud Kafka Service as the confidential

> data is now residing in the clear on the file systems of the service provider.

Reviewer 2: This is a specific example of a problem that can exist even without cloud in the picture. It's simply about the trust boundaries within an organisation. If compliance requirements dictate that the people (internal or external) who run the Kafka cluster (and therefore have broker access) should not be trusted to see the business data being stored there (e.g. by some other business function in the org) then essentially the same problem exists. 

If we're aiming this at decision makers then let's not give them the excuse of misunderstanding and thinking "we run Kafka on-prem, so this doesn't apply to us". I.e. describe the general problem and use cloud only as ac concrete example of it.

Author: I've run out of steam on this one today.  I can quite find a formulation of words that I'm happy with.  I'll take a look tomorrow.

Author: Raised as #32

| ![image](../assets/encryption-at-rest_problem.png){:width="100%"} |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------:|
|    *Problem: Plain text records readable by the Kafka Admins*     |

### Isn't TLS sufficient?

> TLS encrypts the content _on the wire_.  It means that someone using a network sniffer cannot tap what is being
> sent over the wire between the application and the Kafka Broker.  However, once the network packets arrive at the broker,

Reviewer 2: Let's mention the wire once:

```suggestion
TLS encrypts the content _in transit_.  It means that someone using a network sniffer cannot observe what is being
sent over the wire between the application and the Kafka Broker.  However, once the network packets arrive at the broker,
```

> the packets are decrypted and exist in the clear once again.  This means the confidential records are in the clear in the memory
> of the broker and in the clear when the data is written to the file system.

Reviewer 2: Too much "in the clear"

```suggestion
the packets are decrypted and exist in the clear once again.  This means the confidential records are readable in the memory
of the broker process and on the file system.
```

TLS does not change the problem.

### Isn't storage volume encryption an answer?

With storage volume encryption, the contents of the device are encrypted with a key.  This approach provides some mitigations.

> If the storage device is stolen or the storage device hijacked and attached to an attacker's computer, the attacker won't have

Author: I don't know enough about how cloud storage encryption actually works to answer that with certainty.

> If the storage device is stolen or the storage device hijacked and attached to an attacker's computer, the attacker won't have

Reviewer 2: The thing about clouds is they're not transparent.

the encryption key so won't be able to read the data, including the Kafka records.

However, there are shortcomings.  The encrypted storage volume must be mounted to the computers running the Kafka broker. To do

> this the  and the encryption keys applied at the operating system level.  Anybody with shell level access to the hosts  is likely

Reviewer 2: There's a missing word or two here (and a double space)

> to be able to read the data, including the Kafka confidential records.

Reviewer 2: Let's elaborate who this might be:

* An insider with authorized access (such as an employee or contractor).
* An intruder who gains unauthorized access

Storage volume encryption doesn't really solve the problem.

### Can't the applications encrypt/decrypt the data?

It is possible for producing applications to encrypt data before sending it to Kafka, and for consuming applications to decrypt it
again.  With this approach the brokers never possess the records in the clear and as they don't have encryption keys, they cannot
decrypt it.

> So, this approach does offer a solution to the problem but there are disadvantages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So, this approach can offer a solution to the problem but there are disadvantages.
```

1. Kafka Client libraries don't support encryption themselves.
1. Kafka Client ecosystem is polyglot - it is common to Kafka applications written in many languages (Java, Go, Rust...)

>    deployed within a _single organisation_.  Any solution needs to work across all the target languages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   deployed within a _single organisation_.  To be practical, this solution needs to work across all clients and tools that an organisation wants to use.
```

1. There are some encryption libraries for some languages that can be used with the Kafka Clients but these available

>    across all languages.

Reviewer 2: Missing words

>    across all languages.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this a separate bullet point or part of the following paragraph. 

The compliance costs of implementing encryption and decryption `n` times, security audits etc.

There is a lot to be said for `do it once and do it right`.

Organisations could write their own encryption code but this is a burden to the application teams. The need for
_interoperability_ between different language encryption implementations - this increases the overheads.  There is also
the problem of key distribution to consider.  Some part of the system needs to push the correct encryption keys out to
the applications and manage tasks such as key rotation.  Finally, cryptography is a specialist area and the consequences

> of a design flaw or bug are significant (confidentiality breach).

Reviewer 2: Spell out the security risks of having to push keys to many more places (applications) than in a more centralised approach.

Other points to make:

*You say it's specialist and comes with consequences, but spell out how that combines with the polyglot point to push up the costs of doing this correctly in multiple places.
* You can also point out that even with support in client libraries and languages it might not be enough because any 3rd party tooling and applications won't use that stuff. 
* Finally, these might be acceptable costs _today_, but the costs can increase later on (e.g. we now want to use this new tool/client, but can't).

> Having the applications encrypt/decrypt data themselves, whilst technically feasible, is not really a tenable solution
> at the scale required for most enterprises.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Having the applications encrypt/decrypt data themselves, whilst technically feasible, is not really a practical solution
at the scale required for most enterprises.
```

# Kroxylicious Topic Encryption

> The Kroxylicious Topic Encryption feature offers a solution to the problem.  The proxy takes the responsibility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kroxylicious Topic Encryption plugin offers a solution to the problem.  The proxy takes the responsibility
```

to encrypt and decrypt the messages. In this way, the Kafka Brokers never see the plain text content of
the message thus ensuring confidentiality.  Encryption is introduced into the system without requiring changes to

> either applications or the Kafka Cluster.

Reviewer 2: Spell out the consequences: This means you can use all your existing tools/applications and there are no barriers to adopting new ones in the future.

Within Kroxylicious, the job of encryption and decryption is delegated to a Kroxylicious Filter. The filter intercepts
produce requests from producing applications and encrypts the content, before the produce request is forwarded to the
brokers.  For consuming, the filter intercepts fetch responses and decrypts the contents before the
fetch response is forwarded to the applications.

> As the solution is proxy-based, it works regardless of the language the applications is written in.

Reviewer: The other advantage to the proxy is it doesn't matter where the application is deployed either. It can be deployed in a different security context to the proxy and to the Kafka cluster. Thus we are adding more flexibility.

> The solution's foundations rest on industry-standard encryption techniques.

Reviewer: I almost feel like this should come before talking about the Kroxylicious filters and how its implemented, the target audience are likely to skim the document so we don't want to bury things like this.

* Envelope Encryption[^1] is employed to efficiently encrypt/decrypt records.

> * Integrates with Key Management Services for safe and secure storage of key encryption keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Integrates with common Key Management Services for safe and secure storage of key encryption keys.
```

  * Plugin for [HashiCorp Vault](https://www.hashicorp.com/)&#174; 
  * Additional KMS implementations are planned.

>   * API available to plugin alternatives

Reviewer 2: You're using it as a verb, not a noun

```suggestion
  * API available to plug in alternatives
```

> * Uses AES-GCM symmetric keys.

Reviewer 2: Relate back to NIST/FIPS requirements for readers who don't have much/any knowledge of cryptography

Author: Done.

> * Supports key rotation (new version applied to newly produced records only).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Supports rotation of data and key encryption keys[^2]
```

Let's add the caveat as small print.

Author: Done.

* Records encrypted using previous key-versions remain decryptable.    

[^1]: [NIST SP.-800-57 part 1 revision 5](https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/Key-Management/Key-Management-Guidelines)

Deployment time configuration at allows the administrator to choose which
encryption keys are to be used to encrypt the records of which topics. Uses cases where some topics

> are encrypted and some remain unencrypted are supported.

Reviewer 2: Also make the point that using a proxy enables flexibility in deployment. For example, you could use

* a single proxy for all applications
* a proxy-per application
* a proxy-per pod

which you chose depends on your requirements.

Reviewer: As I said above, there is also flexibility in where the things are deployed.

Author: I think this comment needs to be addressed in the overview.
